---
layout: page
title: proxmox_sdn_zone_evpn
parent: Data Sources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Retrieves information about an EVPN Zone in Proxmox SDN. The EVPN zone creates a routable Layer 3 network, capable of spanning across multiple clusters.
---

# Data Source: proxmox_sdn_zone_evpn

Retrieves information about an EVPN Zone in Proxmox SDN. The EVPN zone creates a routable Layer 3 network, capable of spanning across multiple clusters.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN zone.

### Read-Only

- `advertise_subnets` (Boolean) Enable subnet advertisement for EVPN.
- `controller` (String) EVPN controller address.
- `disable_arp_nd_suppression` (Boolean) Disable ARP/ND suppression for EVPN.
- `dns` (String) DNS API server address.
- `dns_zone` (String) DNS domain name. Used to register hostnames, such as `<hostname>.<domain>`. The DNS zone must already exist on the DNS server.
- `exit_nodes` (Set of String) List of exit nodes for EVPN.
- `exit_nodes_local_routing` (Boolean) Enable local routing for EVPN exit nodes.
- `ipam` (String) IP Address Management system.
- `mtu` (Number) MTU value for the zone.
- `nodes` (Set of String) The Proxmox nodes which the zone and associated VNets are deployed on
- `pending` (Boolean) Indicates if the zone has pending configuration changes that need to be applied.
- `primary_exit_node` (String) Primary exit node for EVPN.
- `reverse_dns` (String) Reverse DNS API server address.
- `rt_import` (String) Route target import for EVPN. Must be in the format '<ASN>:<number>' (e.g., '65000:65000').
- `state` (String) Indicates the current state of the zone.
- `vrf_vxlan` (Number) VRF VXLAN-ID used for dedicated routing interconnect between VNets. It must be different than the VXLAN-ID of the VNets.
