---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone
parent: Data Sources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Fetch a Proxmox SDN Zone by name.
---

# Data Source: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone


This data source allows you to fetch information about an existing SDN zone in a Proxmox Virtual Environment (PVE) cluster by its name.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Name (ID) of the SDN zone.

### Read-Only

- `advertise_subnets` (Boolean) - Whether to advertise subnets to the zone.
- `bridge` (String) – Linux bridge device used (if applicable).
- `controller` (String) – Controller for EVPN zones.
- `disable_arp_nd_suppression` (Boolean) – Whether ARP/ND suppression is disabled.
- `dns` (String) – DNS server configured for the zone.
- `dns_zone` (String) – The DNS zone name used by this SDN zone.
- `exit_nodes` (String) – Nodes designated as exit points.
- `exit_nodes_local_routing` (Boolean) – Whether local routing is enabled for exit nodes.
- `id` (String) - The ID of the SDN zone.
- `ipam` (String) – The IP Address Management (IPAM) method used in the zone.
- `mtu` (Number) – Maximum Transmission Unit for this zone.
- `nodes` (String) – Comma-separated list of node names associated with the zone.
- `peers` (String) – Peers used for some zone types only.
- `primary_exit_node` (String) – The main exit node.
- `reversedns` (String) – Reverse DNS server for the zone.
- `rt_import` (String) – Route targets to import.
- `tag` (Number) – VLAN tag or other numeric identifier.
- `type` (String) – The SDN zone type (e.g., `simple`, `vlan`, `vxlan`, `evpn`).
- `vlan_protocol` (String) – VLAN protocol used.
- `vrf_vxlan` (Number) – VXLAN ID associated with VRF zones.
