docs/data-sources/virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple
parent: Data Sources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Retrieves information about a Simple Zone in Proxmox SDN. It will create an isolated VNet bridge. This bridge is not linked to a physical interface, and VM traffic is only local on each the node. It can be used in NAT or routed setups.
---

# Data Source: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple

Retrieves information about a Simple Zone in Proxmox SDN. It will create an isolated VNet bridge. This bridge is not linked to a physical interface, and VM traffic is only local on each the node. It can be used in NAT or routed setups.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple" "example" {
  id = "simple1"
}

output "data_proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple" {
  value = {
    id          = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.id
    nodes       = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.nodes
    mtu         = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.mtu
    dns         = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.dns
    dns_zone    = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.dns_zone
    ipam        = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.ipam
    reverse_dns = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.reverse_dns
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN zone.

### Read-Only

- `dns` (String) DNS API server address.
- `dns_zone` (String) DNS domain name. Used to register hostnames, such as `<hostname>.<domain>`. The DNS zone must already exist on the DNS server.
- `ipam` (String) IP Address Management system.
- `mtu` (Number) MTU value for the zone.
- `nodes` (Set of String) The Proxmox nodes which the zone and associated VNets are deployed on
- `pending` (Boolean) Indicates if the zone has pending configuration changes that need to be applied.
- `reverse_dns` (String) Reverse DNS API server address.
- `state` (String) Indicates the current state of the zone.

Commit message:

fix(sdn): add missing `dhcp` field to `simple` zone datasource (#2243)
* fix(sdn): add missing `dhcp` field to simple zone datasource

Signed-off-by: Pavel Boldyrev <627562+bpg@users.noreply.github.com>

* cleanup

Signed-off-by: Pavel Boldyrev <627562+bpg@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Pavel Boldyrev <627562+bpg@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/data-sources/virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple
parent: Data Sources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Retrieves information about a Simple Zone in Proxmox SDN. It will create an isolated VNet bridge. This bridge is not linked to a physical interface, and VM traffic is only local on each the node. It can be used in NAT or routed setups.
---

# Data Source: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple

Retrieves information about a Simple Zone in Proxmox SDN. It will create an isolated VNet bridge. This bridge is not linked to a physical interface, and VM traffic is only local on each the node. It can be used in NAT or routed setups.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple" "example" {
  id = "simple1"
}

output "data_proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple" {
  value = {
    id          = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.id
    nodes       = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.nodes
    mtu         = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.mtu
    dns         = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.dns
    dns_zone    = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.dns_zone
    ipam        = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.ipam
    reverse_dns = data.proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example.reverse_dns
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN zone.

### Read-Only

- `dhcp` (String) The type of the DHCP backend for this zone.
- `dns` (String) DNS API server address.
- `dns_zone` (String) DNS domain name. Used to register hostnames, such as `<hostname>.<domain>`. The DNS zone must already exist on the DNS server.
- `ipam` (String) IP Address Management system.
- `mtu` (Number) MTU value for the zone.
- `nodes` (Set of String) The Proxmox nodes which the zone and associated VNets are deployed on
- `pending` (Boolean) Indicates if the zone has pending configuration changes that need to be applied.
- `reverse_dns` (String) Reverse DNS API server address.
- `state` (String) Indicates the current state of the zone.
