.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

### Contributor's Note
<!--- 
Please mark the following items with an [x] if they apply to your PR.
Leave the [ ] if they are not applicable, or if you have not completed the item.
--->
- [ ] I have added / updated documentation in `/docs` for any user-facing features or additions.
- [ ] I have added / updated templates in `/example` for any new or updated resources / data sources.
- [ ] I have ran `make example` to verify that the change works as expected.

<!---
You can find more information about coding conventions and local testing in the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/bpg/terraform-provider-proxmox/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.
--->

<!--
*IF* your code contains breaking changes make sure to add `!` to the end of commit type, e.g.:
```
    feat(vm)!: add support for new feature 
```
Also, uncomment the section just below, and add a description of the breaking change. 
--->

<!---
#### ⚠ BREAKING CHANGES

>>> Put your description here <<<
--->

### Proof of Work
<!--- 
Please add screenshots, logs, or other relevant information that demonstrates the change works as expected.
--->

<!--- Please keep this note for the community --->
### Community Note

- Please vote on this pull request by adding a 👍 [reaction](https://blog.github.com/2016-03-10-add-reactions-to-pull-requests-issues-and-comments/) to the original pull request comment to help the community and maintainers prioritize this request
- Please do not leave "+1" or other comments that do not add relevant new information or questions, they generate extra noise for pull request followers and do not help prioritize the request
<!--- Thank you for keeping this note for the community --->

<!--- If your PR fully resolves and should automatically close the linked issue, use Closes. Otherwise, use Relates --->
Closes #0000 | Relates #0000

<!--- Release note for [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/bpg/terraform-provider-proxmox/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) will be created automatically using the PR's title, update it accordingly. --->

Commit message:

docs: improve make example documentation, add how-to for proxmox setup
Signed-off-by: rafsaf <rafal.safin12@gmail.com>

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

### Contributor's Note

<!---
Please mark the following items with an [x] if they apply to your PR.
Leave the [ ] if they are not applicable, or if you have not completed the item.
--->

- [ ] I have added / updated documentation in `/docs` for any user-facing features or additions.
- [ ] I have added / updated templates in `/example` for any new or updated resources / data sources.
- [ ] I have ran `make example` to verify that the change works as expected.

<!---
You can find more information about coding conventions and local testing in the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/bpg/terraform-provider-proxmox/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

If you are unsure how to run `make example`, see [Deploying the example resources](https://github.com/bpg/terraform-provider-proxmox?tab=readme-ov-file#deploying-the-example-resources) section in README.
--->

<!--
*IF* your code contains breaking changes make sure to add `!` to the end of commit type, e.g.:
```
    feat(vm)!: add support for new feature
```
Also, uncomment the section just below, and add a description of the breaking change.
--->

<!---
#### ⚠ BREAKING CHANGES

>>> Put your description here <<<
--->

### Proof of Work

<!---
Please add screenshots, logs, or other relevant information that demonstrates the change works as expected.
--->

<!--- Please keep this note for the community --->

### Community Note

- Please vote on this pull request by adding a 👍 [reaction](https://blog.github.com/2016-03-10-add-reactions-to-pull-requests-issues-and-comments/) to the original pull request comment to help the community and maintainers prioritize this request
- Please do not leave "+1" or other comments that do not add relevant new information or questions, they generate extra noise for pull request followers and do not help prioritize the request
<!--- Thank you for keeping this note for the community --->

<!--- If your PR fully resolves and should automatically close the linked issue, use Closes. Otherwise, use Relates --->

Closes #0000 | Relates #0000

<!--- Release note for [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/bpg/terraform-provider-proxmox/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) will be created automatically using the PR's title, update it accordingly. --->
