docs/guides/clone-vm.md, before:

---
layout: page
page_title: "Clone a VM"
subcategory: Guides
description: |-
    This guide explains how to create a VM template and then clone it to another VM.
---

# Clone a VM

## Create a VM template

VM templates in Proxmox provide an efficient way to create multiple identical VMs. Templates act as a base image that can be cloned to create new VMs, ensuring consistency and reducing the time needed to provision new instances. When a VM is created as a template, it is read-only and can't be started, but can be cloned multiple times to create new VMs.

You can create a template directly in Proxmox by setting the `template` attribute to `true` when creating the VM resource:

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_vm" "ubuntu_template" {
  name      = "ubuntu-template"
  node_name = "pve"

  template = true
  started  = false

  machine     = "q35"
  bios        = "ovmf"
  description = "Managed by Terraform"

  cpu {
    cores = 2
  }

  memory {
    dedicated = 2048
  }

  efi_disk {
    datastore_id = "local"
    type         = "4m"
  }

  disk {
    datastore_id = "local-lvm"
    file_id      = proxmox_virtual_environment_download_file.ubuntu_cloud_image.id
    interface    = "virtio0"
    iothread     = true
    discard      = "on"
    size         = 20
  }

  initialization {
    ip_config {
      ipv4 {
        address = "dhcp"
      }
    }

    user_data_file_id = proxmox_virtual_environment_file.user_data_cloud_config.id
  }

  network_device {
    bridge = "vmbr0"
  }

}

resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_download_file" "ubuntu_cloud_image" {
  content_type = "iso"
  datastore_id = "local"
  node_name    = "pve"

  url = "https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/jammy/current/jammy-server-cloudimg-amd64.img"
}
```

Once you have a template, you can clone it to create new VMs. The cloned VMs will inherit all the configuration from the template but can be customized further as needed.

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_vm" "ubuntu_clone" {
  name      = "ubuntu-clone"
  node_name = "pve"

  clone {
    vm_id = proxmox_virtual_environment_vm.ubuntu_template.id
  }

  agent {
    # NOTE: The agent is installed and enabled as part of the cloud-init configuration in the template VM, see cloud-config.tf
    # The working agent is *required* to retrieve the VM IP addresses.
    # If you are using a different cloud-init configuration, or a different clone source
    # that does not have the qemu-guest-agent installed, you may need to disable the `agent` below and remove the `vm_ipv4_address` output.
    # See https://registry.terraform.io/providers/bpg/proxmox/latest/docs/resources/virtual_environment_vm#qemu-guest-agent for more details.
    enabled = true
  }

  memory {
    dedicated = 768
  }

  initialization {
    dns {
      servers = ["1.1.1.1"]
    }
    ip_config {
      ipv4 {
        address = "dhcp"
      }
    }
  }
}

output "vm_ipv4_address" {
  value = proxmox_virtual_environment_vm.ubuntu_clone.ipv4_addresses[1][0]
}
```

Commit message:

chore(docs): cleanup and update `clone-vm` example
Signed-off-by: Pavel Boldyrev <627562+bpg@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/guides/clone-vm.md, after:

---
layout: page
page_title: "Clone a VM"
subcategory: Guides
description: |-
    This guide explains how to create a VM template and clone it to a new VM.
---

# Clone a VM

## Create a VM template

VM templates in Proxmox provide an efficient way to create multiple identical VMs. Templates act as a base image that can be cloned to create new VMs, ensuring consistency and reducing the time needed to provision new instances. When a VM is created as a template, it is read-only and cannot be started, but can be cloned multiple times to create new VMs.

You can create a template with Terraform by setting the `template` attribute to `true` when creating the VM resource:

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_vm" "ubuntu_template" {
  name      = "ubuntu-template"
  node_name = var.virtual_environment_node_name

  template = true
  started  = false

  machine     = "q35"
  bios        = "ovmf"
  description = "Managed by Terraform"

  cpu {
    cores = 2
  }

  memory {
    dedicated = 2048
  }

  efi_disk {
    datastore_id = var.datastore_id
    type         = "4m"
  }

  disk {
    datastore_id = var.datastore_id
    file_id      = proxmox_virtual_environment_download_file.ubuntu_cloud_image.id
    interface    = "virtio0"
    iothread     = true
    discard      = "on"
    size         = 20
  }

  initialization {
    ip_config {
      ipv4 {
        address = "dhcp"
      }
    }

    user_data_file_id = proxmox_virtual_environment_file.user_data_cloud_config.id
  }

  network_device {
    bridge = "vmbr0"
  }

}

resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_download_file" "ubuntu_cloud_image" {
  content_type = "iso"
  datastore_id = "local"
  node_name    = var.virtual_environment_node_name

  url = "https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/jammy/current/jammy-server-cloudimg-amd64.img"
}
```

Once you have a template, you can clone it to create new VMs. The cloned VMs will inherit all configuration from the template but can be customized further as needed.

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_vm" "ubuntu_clone" {
  name      = "ubuntu-clone"
  node_name = var.virtual_environment_node_name

  clone {
    vm_id = proxmox_virtual_environment_vm.ubuntu_template.id
  }

  agent {
    # NOTE: The agent is installed and enabled as part of the cloud-init configuration in the template VM, see cloud-config.tf
    # The working agent is *required* to retrieve the VM IP addresses.
    # If you are using a different cloud-init configuration, or a different clone source
    # that does not have the qemu-guest-agent installed, you may need to disable the `agent` below and remove the `vm_ipv4_address` output.
    # See https://registry.terraform.io/providers/bpg/proxmox/latest/docs/resources/virtual_environment_vm#qemu-guest-agent for more details.
    enabled = true
  }

  memory {
    dedicated = 768
  }

  initialization {
    dns {
      servers = ["1.1.1.1"]
    }
    ip_config {
      ipv4 {
        address = "dhcp"
      }
    }
  }
}

output "vm_ipv4_address" {
  value = proxmox_virtual_environment_vm.ubuntu_clone.ipv4_addresses[1][0]
}
```

Full example is available in the [examples/guides/clone-vm](https://github.com/bpg/terraform-provider-proxmox/tree/main/examples/guides/clone-vm) directory.
