---
layout: page
title: proxmox_network_linux_bond
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Manages a Linux Bond network interface in a Proxmox VE node.
---

# Resource: proxmox_network_linux_bond

Manages a Linux Bond network interface in a Proxmox VE node.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The interface name. Must be `bond[N]`, where 0 ≤ N (e.g. bond0, bond1), or any alphanumeric string that starts with a character and is at most 10 characters long.
- `node_name` (String) The name of the node.
- `slaves` (List of String) The interface bond slaves (member interfaces).

### Optional

- `address` (String) The interface IPv4/CIDR address.
- `address6` (String) The interface IPv6/CIDR address.
- `autostart` (Boolean) Automatically start interface on boot (defaults to `true`).
- `bond_mode` (String) The bonding mode. Possible values are `balance-rr`, `active-backup`, `balance-xor`, `broadcast`, `802.3ad`, `balance-tlb`, `balance-alb`.
- `bond_primary` (String) The primary interface for `active-backup` bond mode. Specifies which slave interface should be the active one.
- `bond_xmit_hash_policy` (String) The transmit hash policy for `balance-xor` and `802.3ad` bond modes. Possible values are `layer2`, `layer2+3`, `layer3+4`.
- `comment` (String) Comment for the interface.
- `gateway` (String) Default gateway address.
- `gateway6` (String) Default IPv6 gateway address.
- `mtu` (Number) The interface MTU.
- `timeout_reload` (Number) Timeout for network reload operations in seconds (defaults to `100`).

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) A unique identifier with format `<node name>:<iface>`
