---
layout: page
title: proxmox_node_firewall
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Manages Proxmox VE Node Firewall options.
  ~> This resource in fact updates existing node firewall configuration created by PVE on bootstrap. All optional attributes have explicit defaults for deterministic behavior (PVE may change defaults in the future). See API documentation https://pve.proxmox.com/pve-docs/api-viewer/index.html#/nodes/{node}/firewall/options.
---

# Resource: proxmox_node_firewall

Manages Proxmox VE Node Firewall options.

~> This resource in fact updates existing node firewall configuration created by PVE on bootstrap. All optional attributes have explicit defaults for deterministic behavior (PVE may change defaults in the future). See [API documentation](https://pve.proxmox.com/pve-docs/api-viewer/index.html#/nodes/{node}/firewall/options).



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `node_name` (String) The cluster node name.

### Optional

- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable host firewall rules (defaults to `true`).
- `log_level_forward` (String) Log level for forwarded traffic. Must be one of: `emerg`, `alert`, `crit`, `err`, `warning`, `notice`, `info`, `debug`, `nolog` (defaults to `nolog`).
- `log_level_in` (String) Log level for incoming traffic. Must be one of: `emerg`, `alert`, `crit`, `err`, `warning`, `notice`, `info`, `debug`, `nolog` (defaults to `nolog`).
- `log_level_out` (String) Log level for outgoing traffic. Must be one of: `emerg`, `alert`, `crit`, `err`, `warning`, `notice`, `info`, `debug`, `nolog` (defaults to `nolog`).
- `ndp` (Boolean) Enable NDP - Neighbor Discovery Protocol (defaults to `true`).
- `nf_conntrack_max` (Number) Maximum number of tracked connections (defaults to `262144`). Minimum value is `32768`.
- `nf_conntrack_tcp_timeout_established` (Number) Conntrack established timeout in seconds (defaults to `432000` - 5 days). Minimum value is `7875`.
- `nftables` (Boolean) Enable nftables based firewall (tech preview, defaults to `false`).
- `nosmurfs` (Boolean) Enable SMURFS filter (defaults to `true`).
- `smurf_log_level` (String) Log level for SMURFS filter. Must be one of: `emerg`, `alert`, `crit`, `err`, `warning`, `notice`, `info`, `debug`, `nolog` (defaults to `nolog`).
- `tcp_flags_log_level` (String) Log level for illegal tcp flags filter. Must be one of: `emerg`, `alert`, `crit`, `err`, `warning`, `notice`, `info`, `debug`, `nolog` (defaults to `nolog`).

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of this resource.
