docs/resources/virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Simple Zone in Proxmox SDN. It will create an isolated VNet bridge. This bridge is not linked to a physical interface, and VM traffic is only local on each the node. It can be used in NAT or routed setups.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple

Simple Zone in Proxmox SDN. It will create an isolated VNet bridge. This bridge is not linked to a physical interface, and VM traffic is only local on each the node. It can be used in NAT or routed setups.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple" "example" {
  id    = "simple1"
  nodes = ["pve"]
  mtu   = 1500

  # Optional attributes
  dns         = "1.1.1.1"
  dns_zone    = "example.com"
  ipam        = "pve"
  reverse_dns = "1.1.1.1"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN zone.
- `nodes` (Set of String) The Proxmox nodes which the zone and associated VNets should be deployed on

### Optional

- `dns` (String) DNS API server address.
- `dns_zone` (String) DNS domain name. Used to register hostnames, such as `<hostname>.<domain>`. The DNS zone must already exist on the DNS server.
- `ipam` (String) IP Address Management system.
- `mtu` (Number) MTU value for the zone.
- `reverse_dns` (String) Reverse DNS API server address.

### Read-Only

- `pending` (Boolean) Indicates if the zone has pending configuration changes that need to be applied.
- `state` (String) Indicates the current state of the zone.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
# Simple SDN zone can be imported using its unique identifier (zone ID)
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example simple1
```

Commit message:

feat(sdn): Add DHCP Config for SDN Simple Zone Resource (#2210)
Signed-off-by: Simon Caron <8635747+simoncaron@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/resources/virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Simple Zone in Proxmox SDN. It will create an isolated VNet bridge. This bridge is not linked to a physical interface, and VM traffic is only local on each the node. It can be used in NAT or routed setups.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple

Simple Zone in Proxmox SDN. It will create an isolated VNet bridge. This bridge is not linked to a physical interface, and VM traffic is only local on each the node. It can be used in NAT or routed setups.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple" "example" {
  id    = "simple1"
  nodes = ["pve"]
  mtu   = 1500

  # Optional attributes
  dns         = "1.1.1.1"
  dns_zone    = "example.com"
  ipam        = "pve"
  reverse_dns = "1.1.1.1"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN zone.
- `nodes` (Set of String) The Proxmox nodes which the zone and associated VNets should be deployed on

### Optional

- `dhcp` (String) The type of the DHCP backend for this zone. Currently the only supported value is `dnsmasq`.
- `dns` (String) DNS API server address.
- `dns_zone` (String) DNS domain name. Used to register hostnames, such as `<hostname>.<domain>`. The DNS zone must already exist on the DNS server.
- `ipam` (String) IP Address Management system.
- `mtu` (Number) MTU value for the zone.
- `reverse_dns` (String) Reverse DNS API server address.

### Read-Only

- `pending` (Boolean) Indicates if the zone has pending configuration changes that need to be applied.
- `state` (String) Indicates the current state of the zone.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
# Simple SDN zone can be imported using its unique identifier (zone ID)
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example simple1
```
