docs/resources/virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Manages a Linux VLAN network interface in a Proxmox VE node.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan

Manages a Linux VLAN network interface in a Proxmox VE node.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan" "vlan99" {
  node_name = "pve"
  name      = "eno0.99"

  comment = "VLAN 99"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The interface name. Add the VLAN tag number to an existing interface name, e.g. `ens18.21`
- `node_name` (String) The name of the node.

### Optional

- `address` (String) The interface IPv4/CIDR address.
- `address6` (String) The interface IPv6/CIDR address.
- `autostart` (Boolean) Automatically start interface on boot (defaults to `true`).
- `comment` (String) Comment for the interface.
- `gateway` (String) Default gateway address.
- `gateway6` (String) Default IPv6 gateway address.
- `mtu` (Number) The interface MTU.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) A unique identifier with format '<node name>:<iface>'
- `interface` (String) The VLAN raw device.
- `vlan` (Number) The VLAN tag

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
#Interfaces can be imported using the `node_name:iface` format, e.g.
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan.vlan99 pve:vlan99
```

Commit message:

fix(provider): User-settable VLAN ID and name
By default resource `proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan`
uses `name` to determine both the actual raw device for VLAN and
VLAN ID.

Since ifupdown2 (manually installed on PVE6, installed by default
since PVE7), it is possible to have VLAN name not tied to VLAN ID.

Make `interface` and `vlan` configurable by user.

docs/resources/virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Manages a Linux VLAN network interface in a Proxmox VE node.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan

Manages a Linux VLAN network interface in a Proxmox VE node.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan" "vlan99" {
  node_name = "pve"
  name      = "eno0.99"

  comment = "VLAN 99"
}
```

or using custom interface name
```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan" "vlan99" {
  node_name = "pve"
  name      = "vlan_lab"

  interface = "eno0"
  vlan = 99
  comment = "VLAN 99"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The interface name.
  - either add the VLAN tag number to an existing interface name, e.g. `ens18.21`

    (and do not set `interface` and `vlan`)
  - or use custom name, e.g. `vlan_lab`

    (`interface` and `vlan` are then required)
- `node_name` (String) The name of the node.

- `interface` (String) The VLAN raw device.
- `vlan` (Number) The VLAN tag

### Optional

- `address` (String) The interface IPv4/CIDR address.
- `address6` (String) The interface IPv6/CIDR address.
- `autostart` (Boolean) Automatically start interface on boot (defaults to `true`).
- `comment` (String) Comment for the interface.
- `gateway` (String) Default gateway address.
- `gateway6` (String) Default IPv6 gateway address.
- `mtu` (Number) The interface MTU.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) A unique identifier with format '<node name>:<iface>'

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
#Interfaces can be imported using the `node_name:iface` format, e.g.
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan.vlan99 pve:vlan99
```
