docs/resources/virtual_environment_sdn_vnet.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Manages Proxmox VE SDN VNet.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet

Manages Proxmox VE SDN VNet.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# SDN Zone (Simple) - Basic zone for simple vnets
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple" "example_zone_1" {
  id    = "zone1"
  nodes = ["pve"]
  mtu   = 1500

  # Optional attributes
  dns         = "1.1.1.1"
  dns_zone    = "example.com"
  ipam        = "pve"
  reverse_dns = "1.1.1.1"

  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier.finalizer
  ]
}

# SDN Zone (Simple) - Second zone for demonstration
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple" "example_zone_2" {
  id    = "zone2"
  nodes = ["pve"]
  mtu   = 1500

  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier.finalizer
  ]
}

# Basic VNet (Simple)
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet" "basic_vnet" {
  id   = "vnet1"
  zone = proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example_zone_1.id

  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier.finalizer
  ]
}

# VNet with Alias and Port Isolation
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet" "isolated_vnet" {
  id            = "vnet2"
  zone          = proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example_zone_2.id
  alias         = "Isolated VNet"
  isolate_ports = true
  vlan_aware    = false

  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier.finalizer
  ]
}

# SDN Applier for all resources
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier" "vnet_applier" {
  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example_zone_1,
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example_zone_2,
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet.basic_vnet,
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet.isolated_vnet
  ]
}

resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier" "finalizer" {
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN VNet.
- `zone` (String) The zone to which this VNet belongs.

### Optional

- `alias` (String) An optional alias for this VNet.
- `isolate_ports` (Boolean) Isolate ports within this VNet.
- `tag` (Number) Tag value for VLAN/VXLAN (can't be used with other zone types).
- `vlan_aware` (Boolean) Allow VM VLANs to pass through this VNet.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
# SDN vnet can be imported using its unique identifier (vnet ID)
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet.basic_vnet vnet1
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet.isolated_vnet vnet2
```

Commit message:

fix(sdn): zone: make `nodes` attribute optional (#2242)
* fix(sdn): zone: make `nodes` attribute optional

Signed-off-by: Pavel Boldyrev <627562+bpg@users.noreply.github.com>

* better test

Signed-off-by: Pavel Boldyrev <627562+bpg@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Pavel Boldyrev <627562+bpg@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/resources/virtual_environment_sdn_vnet.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Manages Proxmox VE SDN VNet.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet

Manages Proxmox VE SDN VNet.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# SDN Zone (Simple) - Basic zone for simple vnets
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple" "example_zone_1" {
  id = "zone1"
  # nodes = ["pve"]  # Optional: omit to apply to all nodes in cluster
  mtu = 1500

  # Optional attributes
  dns         = "1.1.1.1"
  dns_zone    = "example.com"
  ipam        = "pve"
  reverse_dns = "1.1.1.1"

  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier.finalizer
  ]
}

# SDN Zone (Simple) - Second zone for demonstration
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple" "example_zone_2" {
  id = "zone2"
  # nodes = ["pve"]  # Optional: omit to apply to all nodes in cluster
  mtu = 1500

  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier.finalizer
  ]
}

# Basic VNet (Simple)
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet" "basic_vnet" {
  id   = "vnet1"
  zone = proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example_zone_1.id

  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier.finalizer
  ]
}

# VNet with Alias and Port Isolation
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet" "isolated_vnet" {
  id            = "vnet2"
  zone          = proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example_zone_2.id
  alias         = "Isolated VNet"
  isolate_ports = true
  vlan_aware    = false

  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier.finalizer
  ]
}

# SDN Applier for all resources
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier" "vnet_applier" {
  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example_zone_1,
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_simple.example_zone_2,
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet.basic_vnet,
    proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet.isolated_vnet
  ]
}

resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_applier" "finalizer" {
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN VNet.
- `zone` (String) The zone to which this VNet belongs.

### Optional

- `alias` (String) An optional alias for this VNet.
- `isolate_ports` (Boolean) Isolate ports within this VNet.
- `tag` (Number) Tag value for VLAN/VXLAN (can't be used with other zone types).
- `vlan_aware` (Boolean) Allow VM VLANs to pass through this VNet.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
# SDN vnet can be imported using its unique identifier (vnet ID)
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet.basic_vnet vnet1
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_vnet.isolated_vnet vnet2
```
