docs/resources/virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vxlan.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vxlan
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  VXLAN Zone in Proxmox SDN. It establishes a tunnel (overlay) on top of an existing network (underlay). This encapsulates layer 2 Ethernet frames within layer 4 UDP datagrams using the default destination port 4789. You have to configure the underlay network yourself to enable UDP connectivity between all peers. Because VXLAN encapsulation uses 50 bytes, the MTU needs to be 50 bytes lower than the outgoing physical interface.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vxlan

VXLAN Zone in Proxmox SDN. It establishes a tunnel (overlay) on top of an existing network (underlay). This encapsulates layer 2 Ethernet frames within layer 4 UDP datagrams using the default destination port 4789. You have to configure the underlay network yourself to enable UDP connectivity between all peers. Because VXLAN encapsulation uses 50 bytes, the MTU needs to be 50 bytes lower than the outgoing physical interface.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vxlan" "example" {
  id    = "vxlan1"
  nodes = ["pve"]
  peers = ["10.0.0.1", "10.0.0.2", "10.0.0.3"]
  mtu   = 1450

  # Optional attributes
  dns         = "1.1.1.1"
  dns_zone    = "example.com"
  ipam        = "pve"
  reverse_dns = "1.1.1.1"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN zone.
- `nodes` (Set of String) The Proxmox nodes which the zone and associated VNets should be deployed on
- `peers` (Set of String) A list of IP addresses of each node in the VXLAN zone. This can be external nodes reachable at this IP address. All nodes in the cluster need to be mentioned here

### Optional

- `dns` (String) DNS API server address.
- `dns_zone` (String) DNS domain name. Used to register hostnames, such as `<hostname>.<domain>`. The DNS zone must already exist on the DNS server.
- `ipam` (String) IP Address Management system.
- `mtu` (Number) MTU value for the zone.
- `reverse_dns` (String) Reverse DNS API server address.

### Read-Only

- `pending` (Boolean) Indicates if the zone has pending configuration changes that need to be applied.
- `state` (String) Indicates the current state of the zone.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
# VXLAN SDN zone can be imported using its unique identifier (zone ID)
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vxlan.example vxlan1
```

Commit message:

fix(sdn): zone: make `nodes` attribute optional
Signed-off-by: Pavel Boldyrev <627562+bpg@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/resources/virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vxlan.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vxlan
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  VXLAN Zone in Proxmox SDN. It establishes a tunnel (overlay) on top of an existing network (underlay). This encapsulates layer 2 Ethernet frames within layer 4 UDP datagrams using the default destination port 4789. You have to configure the underlay network yourself to enable UDP connectivity between all peers. Because VXLAN encapsulation uses 50 bytes, the MTU needs to be 50 bytes lower than the outgoing physical interface.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vxlan

VXLAN Zone in Proxmox SDN. It establishes a tunnel (overlay) on top of an existing network (underlay). This encapsulates layer 2 Ethernet frames within layer 4 UDP datagrams using the default destination port 4789. You have to configure the underlay network yourself to enable UDP connectivity between all peers. Because VXLAN encapsulation uses 50 bytes, the MTU needs to be 50 bytes lower than the outgoing physical interface.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vxlan" "example" {
  id = "vxlan1"
  # nodes = ["pve"]  # Optional: omit to apply to all nodes in cluster
  peers = ["10.0.0.1", "10.0.0.2", "10.0.0.3"]
  mtu   = 1450

  # Optional attributes
  dns         = "1.1.1.1"
  dns_zone    = "example.com"
  ipam        = "pve"
  reverse_dns = "1.1.1.1"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN zone.
- `peers` (Set of String) A list of IP addresses of each node in the VXLAN zone. This can be external nodes reachable at this IP address. All nodes in the cluster need to be mentioned here

### Optional

- `dns` (String) DNS API server address.
- `dns_zone` (String) DNS domain name. Used to register hostnames, such as `<hostname>.<domain>`. The DNS zone must already exist on the DNS server.
- `ipam` (String) IP Address Management system.
- `mtu` (Number) MTU value for the zone.
- `nodes` (Set of String) The Proxmox nodes which the zone and associated VNets should be deployed on
- `reverse_dns` (String) Reverse DNS API server address.

### Read-Only

- `pending` (Boolean) Indicates if the zone has pending configuration changes that need to be applied.
- `state` (String) Indicates the current state of the zone.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
# VXLAN SDN zone can be imported using its unique identifier (zone ID)
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vxlan.example vxlan1
```
