docs/resources/virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vlan.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vlan
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  VLAN Zone in Proxmox SDN. It uses an existing local Linux or OVS bridge to connect to the node's physical interface. It uses VLAN tagging defined in the VNet to isolate the network segments. This allows connectivity of VMs between different nodes.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vlan

VLAN Zone in Proxmox SDN. It uses an existing local Linux or OVS bridge to connect to the node's physical interface. It uses VLAN tagging defined in the VNet to isolate the network segments. This allows connectivity of VMs between different nodes.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vlan" "example" {
  id     = "vlan1"
  nodes  = ["pve"]
  bridge = "vmbr0"
  mtu    = 1500

  # Optional attributes
  dns         = "1.1.1.1"
  dns_zone    = "example.com"
  ipam        = "pve"
  reverse_dns = "1.1.1.1"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `bridge` (String) The local bridge or OVS switch, already configured on _each_ node that allows node-to-node connection.
- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN zone.
- `nodes` (Set of String) The Proxmox nodes which the zone and associated VNets should be deployed on

### Optional

- `dns` (String) DNS API server address.
- `dns_zone` (String) DNS domain name. Used to register hostnames, such as `<hostname>.<domain>`. The DNS zone must already exist on the DNS server.
- `ipam` (String) IP Address Management system.
- `mtu` (Number) MTU value for the zone.
- `reverse_dns` (String) Reverse DNS API server address.

### Read-Only

- `pending` (Boolean) Indicates if the zone has pending configuration changes that need to be applied.
- `state` (String) Indicates the current state of the zone.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
# VLAN SDN zone can be imported using its unique identifier (zone ID)
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vlan.example vlan1
```

Commit message:

fix(sdn): zone: make `nodes` attribute optional
Signed-off-by: Pavel Boldyrev <627562+bpg@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/resources/virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vlan.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vlan
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  VLAN Zone in Proxmox SDN. It uses an existing local Linux or OVS bridge to connect to the node's physical interface. It uses VLAN tagging defined in the VNet to isolate the network segments. This allows connectivity of VMs between different nodes.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vlan

VLAN Zone in Proxmox SDN. It uses an existing local Linux or OVS bridge to connect to the node's physical interface. It uses VLAN tagging defined in the VNet to isolate the network segments. This allows connectivity of VMs between different nodes.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vlan" "example" {
  id = "vlan1"
  # nodes = ["pve"]  # Optional: omit to apply to all nodes in cluster
  bridge = "vmbr0"
  mtu    = 1500

  # Optional attributes
  dns         = "1.1.1.1"
  dns_zone    = "example.com"
  ipam        = "pve"
  reverse_dns = "1.1.1.1"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `bridge` (String) The local bridge or OVS switch, already configured on _each_ node that allows node-to-node connection.
- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the SDN zone.

### Optional

- `dns` (String) DNS API server address.
- `dns_zone` (String) DNS domain name. Used to register hostnames, such as `<hostname>.<domain>`. The DNS zone must already exist on the DNS server.
- `ipam` (String) IP Address Management system.
- `mtu` (Number) MTU value for the zone.
- `nodes` (Set of String) The Proxmox nodes which the zone and associated VNets should be deployed on
- `reverse_dns` (String) Reverse DNS API server address.

### Read-Only

- `pending` (Boolean) Indicates if the zone has pending configuration changes that need to be applied.
- `state` (String) Indicates the current state of the zone.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
# VLAN SDN zone can be imported using its unique identifier (zone ID)
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_sdn_zone_vlan.example vlan1
```
