docs/resources/virtual_environment_network_linux_bridge.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_bridge
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Manages a Linux Bridge network interface in a Proxmox VE node.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_bridge

Manages a Linux Bridge network interface in a Proxmox VE node.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_bridge" "vmbr99" {
  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan.vlan99
  ]

  node_name = "pve"
  name      = "vmbr99"

  address = "99.99.99.99/16"

  comment = "vmbr99 comment"

  ports = [
    "ens18.99"
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The interface name. Must be `vmbrN`, where N is a number between 0 and 9999.
- `node_name` (String) The name of the node.

### Optional

- `address` (String) The interface IPv4/CIDR address.
- `address6` (String) The interface IPv6/CIDR address.
- `autostart` (Boolean) Automatically start interface on boot (defaults to `true`).
- `comment` (String) Comment for the interface.
- `gateway` (String) Default gateway address.
- `gateway6` (String) Default IPv6 gateway address.
- `mtu` (Number) The interface MTU.
- `ports` (List of String) The interface bridge ports.
- `vlan_aware` (Boolean) Whether the interface bridge is VLAN aware (defaults to `false`).

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) A unique identifier with format `<node name>:<iface>`

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
#Interfaces can be imported using the `node_name:iface` format, e.g.
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_bridge.vmbr99 pve:vmbr99
```

Commit message:

chore(docs): improve `network_linux_bridge` documentation
Signed-off-by: Pavel Boldyrev <627562+bpg@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/resources/virtual_environment_network_linux_bridge.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_bridge
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Manages a Linux Bridge network interface in a Proxmox VE node.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_bridge

Manages a Linux Bridge network interface in a Proxmox VE node.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_bridge" "vmbr99" {
  depends_on = [
    proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan.vlan99
  ]

  node_name = "pve"
  name      = "vmbr99"

  address = "99.99.99.99/16"

  comment = "vmbr99 comment"

  ports = [
    # Network (or VLAN) interfaces to attach to the bridge, specified by their interface name
    # (e.g. "ens18.99" for VLAN 99 on interface ens18).
    # For VLAN interfaces with custom names, use the interface name without the VLAN tag, e.g. "vlan_lab"
    "ens18.99"
  ]
}

resource "proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_vlan" "vlan99" {
  node_name = "pve"
  name      = "ens18.99"

  ## or alternatively, use custom name:
  # name      = "vlan_lab"
  # interface = "eno0"
  # vlan      = 98
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The interface name. Must be `vmbrN`, where N is a number between 0 and 9999.
- `node_name` (String) The name of the node.

### Optional

- `address` (String) The interface IPv4/CIDR address.
- `address6` (String) The interface IPv6/CIDR address.
- `autostart` (Boolean) Automatically start interface on boot (defaults to `true`).
- `comment` (String) Comment for the interface.
- `gateway` (String) Default gateway address.
- `gateway6` (String) Default IPv6 gateway address.
- `mtu` (Number) The interface MTU.
- `ports` (List of String) The interface bridge ports.
- `vlan_aware` (Boolean) Whether the interface bridge is VLAN aware (defaults to `false`).

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) A unique identifier with format `<node name>:<iface>`

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env sh
#Interfaces can be imported using the `node_name:iface` format, e.g.
terraform import proxmox_virtual_environment_network_linux_bridge.vmbr99 pve:vmbr99
```
