---
layout: page
title: proxmox_virtual_environment_storage_directory
parent: Resources
subcategory: Virtual Environment
description: |-
  Manages directory-based storage in Proxmox VE.
---

# Resource: proxmox_virtual_environment_storage_directory

Manages directory-based storage in Proxmox VE.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the storage.
- `path` (String) The path to the directory on the Proxmox node.

### Optional

- `backups` (Block, Optional) Configure backup retention settings for the storage type. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--backups))
- `content` (Set of String) The content types that can be stored on this storage.
- `disable` (Boolean) Whether the storage is disabled.
- `nodes` (Set of String) A list of nodes where this storage is available.
- `preallocation` (String) The preallocation mode for raw and qcow2 images.
- `shared` (Boolean) Whether the storage is shared across all nodes.

<a id="nestedblock--backups"></a>
### Nested Schema for `backups`

Optional:

- `keep_all` (Boolean) Specifies if all backups should be kept, regardless of their age.
- `keep_daily` (Number) The number of daily backups to keep. Older backups will be removed.
- `keep_hourly` (Number) The number of hourly backups to keep. Older backups will be removed.
- `keep_last` (Number) Specifies the number of the most recent backups to keep, regardless of their age.
- `keep_monthly` (Number) The number of monthly backups to keep. Older backups will be removed.
- `keep_weekly` (Number) The number of weekly backups to keep. Older backups will be removed.
- `keep_yearly` (Number) The number of yearly backups to keep. Older backups will be removed.
- `max_protected_backups` (Number) The maximum number of protected backups per guest. Use '-1' for unlimited.
